First iteration for the encoding (#18)
vcstuff/draft-looker-jwt-cwt-status-list: draft-looker-jwt-cwt-status-list.md

2. The claim value object MUST contain a "typ" (type) attribute with a string based value that represents the type of status list referenced. The value MUST be equal to that of the "typ" attribute in the "status" claim for the token who's status is being validated.

3. The claim value object MUST contain a "lst" (list) attribute with a string based value that represents the status values for all the tokens it conveys statuses for. The value MUST be computed using the algorithm described in [](#jwt-status-list-claim-encoding).

### Status List Encoding {#jwt-status-list-claim-encoding}

> Each status of a credential must be representable by a bit-size of 1,2,4, or 8. This means 2,4,16, or 256 possible statuses for a credential depending on the bit-size of choice. This limitation was introduced to reduce the amount of bit manipulation necessary to one byte for every operation and thus keeping implementations simpler and less error prone.

Reviewer: If #20 is merged ahead will need to update this PR with the required language alignment e.g credential -> subject token

Author: Updated with referenced token by paul

> 1. The overall status list is encoded as a byte array. where each byte corresponds to 8/(#bit-size) statuses (8,4,2, or 1). Each status is identified using an index that maps to a specific byte in the array and within that byte to specific bits. The index starts counting at 0 and, with the maximum value being (#(entries of status list) -1). If a byte represents multiple statuses, then the bits are chosen from least significant bit to highest significant bit for lower index to higher index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The overall status list is encoded as a byte array. Depending on the "bit-size" each byte corresponds to 8/(#bit-size) statuses (8,4,2, or 1). The status of each Referenced Token is identified using an index that maps to a specific bits within the byte array. The index starts counting at 0 and ends with "size" - 1(being the last valid entry). The bits within an array are counted from least significant bit "0" to the most significant bit ("7"). All bits of the byte array at a particular index are set to a status value.
```

2. The complete byte array is compressed using gZIP {{RFC1952}}.

> 3. The result of the gZIP compression is then encoded as URL-safe base64 encoding without padding as defined in Section 2 of {{RFC7515}} and stored as a string.

Reviewer 2: I would favor Base64 instead of Base64 URL as I think library support should be better and we do not intend to send the byte array over an URL

Author: That was one of the points I wasn't 100% sure about. Url-safe encoding is a tiny bit smaller (= padding) but so far i don't think we would ever convey the status list in some form of URL. 
Overall I agree, let's start with base64 for better support and figure out if there are reasons we were not aware not yet to switch to another representaion.

Reviewer 2: I refrain from my point after speaking with Micha Kraus. He mentioned that JWT is using Ba64URL for encoding anyway, as the Token uses JWT as a wrapper, it makes sense to use the same encoding!

> Example of a byte representing 4 statuses with indices 0,1,2,3:

Reviewer 3: Better understanding by adding the possible states of a status with number of bits
Example of a byte representing 4  statuses (2 bit possible values each) with indices 0,1,2,3:

1. The overall status list is encoded as a byte array. Depending on the "bit-size" each byte corresponds to 8/(#bit-size) statuses (8,4,2, or 1). The status of each Referenced Token is identified using an index that maps to one or more specific bits within the byte array. The index starts counting at 0 and ends with "size" - 1(being the last valid entry). The bits within an array are counted from least significant bit "0" to the most significant bit ("7"). All bits of the byte array at a particular index are set to a status value.

2. The complete byte array is compressed using gZIP {{RFC1952}}.

3. The result of the gZIP compression is then encoded as base64 encoding as defined in Section 4 of {{RFC4648}} and stored as a string.

Example of a byte representing 8 statuses (1-bit status list) with indices 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 (1 byte):

~~~ ascii-art

status[0] = 1
status[1] = 0
status[2] = 0
status[3] = 1
status[4] = 1
status[5] = 1
status[6] = 0
status[7] = 1

resulting byte =  0b10111001 or 0xB9.

> ~~~

Reviewer 2: this is missing the encoded list

Author: The encoded list example was added in the last commit
